
1.0 Snowflake AI Data Cloud Features & Architecture


- Interoperable storage : gives you unsiloed access to any data at near-infinite scale, including data outside of Snowflake.
- Elastic compute  : delivers leading performance for any number of users, data volumes and workloads with a single, scalable engine.
- Cortex AI : accelerates enterprise AI with secure access to industry-leading LLMs and AI services.
- Cloud services : ensure that Snowflake “just works” with automation that helps eliminate costly and complex resource investments and universal governance to protect your data, apps, and models.
- Snowgrid : lets you securely connect globally to data and apps across regions and clouds through a single, consistent experience.



**Architecture**
A hybrid of traditional shared disk and shared nothing architetures    
multi-cluster shared data architecture using a central data repository and massively parallel processing (MPP).   

Data Objects are not visible to customer, only accessible through Query

**<u>cloud services layer</u>**
- authentication
- infrastructure management
- metadata management
- query parsing and optimization
- access control
- Query Processing, Avaiablity Zone Management is NOT done in Services

**<u>Elastic Compute Layer </u>**
- Query Processing
- data loading
- transformations

**<u>Snowgrid :</u>**
allows you to use Secure Data Sharing features to provide access to live data, without any ETL or movement of files across environments.

**<u> TABLE</u>**
- Hybrid tables does not support clustering keys
- micro partition: 50 ~500 MB of uncompressed data 
- Columns are stored independently within micro-partitions, often referred to as columnar storage.
- Table storage : 1) SHOW TABLES 2) Information Schema -> TABLE_STORAGE_METRICS    
**<u>Clustering :</u>**
- Tables in the multi-terabyte range are good candidates for clustering keys.
- Both automatic clustering and reclustering consume credit.
- A single clustering key can contain one or more columns or expressions.
- Snowflake recommends a maximum of three or four columns (or expressions) per key for most tables.
- Adding more than 3-4 columns tends to increase costs more than benefits.
- Clustering depth 0 means not populated

**<u>SnowSQL :</u>**
Command Line tool to load data from local system<br>

**<u>Kafta connector :</u>**
The connector creates the following objects for each topic:
- One internal stage to temporarily store data files for each topic.
- One pipe to ingest the data files for each topic partition.
- One table for each topic. If the table specified for each topic does not exist, the connector creates it; otherwise, the connector creates the RECORD_CONTENT and RECORD_METADATA columns in the existing table and verifies that the other columns are nullable (and produces an error if they are not).

**<u>Views :</u>**
- Standard
- Secured View
- Materialized View - Background service updates automatically and transparently

**<u>Streams:</u>**
Insert Only - For external table

**<u>TASK :</u>**

A task can execute any one of the following types of SQL code:
- Single SQL statement
- Call to a stored procedure
- Procedural logic using Snowflake Scripting.

- should run the ALTER TASK command to RESUME the task






**Store Procedure:**
- Can only run either with callers right or owners right

**Pipes :**
- Show pipe will list all pipes with access privileges
- Snowpipe load history is stored in the metadata of the pipe object for 14 days

**Cost**
- Storage  : average daily volume of compressed data (in terabytes, TB) per month.
- Compute : Size of running Warehouses & time of running


**Key Regulatory Compliance & Certifications**
- Security & Privacy: SOC 1 Type II, SOC 2 Type II, ISO/IEC 27001:2022, ISO 27017, ISO 27018.
- Data Protection & Privacy: GDPR and CCPA support.
- Financial & Healthcare: PCI-DSS Level 1 (for cardholder data), HITRUST CSF, HIPAA
- Government/Public Sector: FedRAMP (Moderate and High), DoD Impact Level 5 (IL5), CJIS, IRS Publication 1075, ITAR, StateRAMP, and TxRAMP.
- AI/General Governance: ISO/IEC 42001:2023 (AI Management), ISO 9001 (Quality Management). 

Account Usage Schema : 
-  ACCESS_HISTORY view in Snowflake's Account Usage schema retains data for 365 days 
