---
title: 2.0 Account Access and Security
updated: 2025-11-25T18:21:57
created: 2025-11-21T21:42:00
---

2.0 Account Access and Security
Friday, November 21, 2025
9:42 PM

    ACCOUNTADMIN (Account Administrator): The highest-level role, inheriting from SECURITYADMIN and SYSADMIN. It manages billing, usage, security policies, and has unrestricted access to the entire account.
    SECURITYADMIN (Security Administrator): Manages all object grants globally, including revoking privileges. It is superior to the USERADMIN role.
    USERADMIN (User Administrator): Dedicated to creating, managing, and dropping users and roles. It is a child of the SECURITYADMIN role.
    SYSADMIN (System Administrator): Responsible for creating and managing system-level objects such as warehouses, databases, schemas, and tables.
    ORGADMIN (Organization Administrator): Manages multiple accounts within a Snowflake organization, including creating new accounts.
    PUBLIC role is Pseudo-role, which is automatically granted to every user and every role in your account. 
    


**ORGADMIN** role manages operations at the organizational level. More specifically, this role:

- Can create accounts in the organization.
- Can view all accounts in the organization (using SHOW ORGANIZATION ACCOUNTS) and all regions enabled for the organization (using SHOW REGIONS).
- Can view usage information across the organization.

**USERADMIN** role is dedicated to user and role management only.
- Is granted the CREATE USER and CREATE ROLE security privileges.
- Can create users and roles in the account.
- This role can also manage users and roles that it owns.

**federated authentication** :
All editions supports federated authentication
Account and security administrators can still create users with passwords maintained in Snowflake.
Users can still log into Snowflake using their Snowflake credentials.
user passwords should be maintained solely in your IdP.
Microsoft ADFS and okta are Idp vendors provide native snowflake support for federated authentication and sso
    Federated authentication 
        Snowflake allows users to securely connect using Single Sign-On (SSO) through external, SAML 2.0-compliant Identity Providers (IdP) like Okta or Microsoft Entra ID. Here Idp is Microsoft Entra Id, SP - Snowflake (service provider) and protocol - SAML 
Users can still use snowflake credentials

Snowflake-managed keys are automatically rotated by Snowflake when they are more than 30 days old.

- A user cannot view the result set from a query that another user executed. Even a user with the ACCOUNTADMIN role cannot view the results for a query run by another user.
- The user access history can be found by querying the Account Usage ACCESS_HISTORY view.
- Dynamic Data Masking features require Enterprise Edition (or higher).
- ACCOUNTADMIN role (or a role granted the CREATE ACCOUNT global privilege) only can create the Reader account.

    SHOW ROLES ;  - all the roles
    SHOW GRANTES ON SCHEMA DBNAME.SCH_NAME; provide permissions on schema


**Network Policy :**
Only security administrators (i.e., users with the SECURITYADMIN role) or higher or a role with the global CREATE NETWORK POLICY privilege can create network policies using Snowsight, Classic Web Interface, and SQL.

The SHOW PARAMETERS command determines whether a network policy is set on the account or for a specific user.
Account level: SHOW PARAMETERS LIKE 'network_policy' IN ACCOUNT;
User level : SHOW PARAMETERS LIKE 'network_policy' IN USER \<username\>;
Example - SHOW PARAMETERS LIKE 'network_policy' IN USER john;

If you provide both Allowed IP Addresses and Blocked IP Addresses, Snowflake applies the Blocked List first.

    Network Policy :
     - Only a single network policy can be activated for each user at a time
        ○ Network policies allow restricting access to your account based on
        IP Address
        CIDR Notaion based IP ranges
        
    All files stored in internal stages for data loading and unloading automatically encrypted using AES-256 strong encryption.



**<U>Resource Monitor</U>** : 
        Only Account admin can create
        Users can be assigned MODIFY & MONITOR roles
 
**<U>Column Level Security</U>**
        Dynamic Data Masking
        External Tokenization
**<U>Row Level Security</U>**
    Row Access Policy 
        Context Functions
        Conditional Expression Functions
    
    
Even a user with the ACCOUNTADMIN role cannot view the results for a query run by another user.