---
title: 6.0 Data Protection and Data Sharing
updated: 2025-11-21T23:54:00
created: 2025-11-21T21:42:53
---

6.0 Data Protection and Data Sharing
Friday, November 21, 2025
9:42 PM


**<u>Data Protection and sharing :</u>**   
    Datasharing 3 types of account    
        Data Providers:  Share data with others  
        Data Consumers: Accesses shared data with their own Snowflake account.   
        Reader Accounts: Query data using compute from the data provider's account. Ie, who does not already have a Snowflake account.   
    
reader accounts are created using ACCOUNTADMIN role   
To Share data from different data base/ schema - create secured view and share   
    

Shares are named Snowflake objects that encapsulate all of the information required to share a database. Each share consists of:
- The privileges that grant access to the database(s) and the schema containing the objects to share.
- The privileges that grant access to the specific objects in the database.
- The consumer accounts with which the database and its objects are shared.

**Types of Share** <BR>
- Listing, in which you offer a **share** and additional metadata as a data **product** to one or more accounts,
- Direct Share, in which you directly share specific **database objects (a share) to another account** in your region,
- Data Exchange, in which you set up and manage a group of accounts and offer a **share to that group**,
- clean room, in which you can **share data and control which queries** can be run against our data.

**Secure Data Sharing** : 
- External tables , Dynamic tables;
- Data is shared in real-time without copying or moving data

**Share Access** : *alter share my_share add accounts = xy12345;*  

** Replication : **
Database and share replication in standard edition(all)  
Replication of all other objects is only available for Business Critical Edition (or higher).   
Replication usage - REPLICATION_USAGE_HISTORY from Account Usage Schema    

**Fail Safe :**

- When the retention period ends for an object, the historical data is moved into Snowflake Fail-safe.  
- Snowflake support needs to be contacted to get the data restored from Fail-safe.  

**Time Travel**  
enables accessing historical data
It serves as a powerful tool for performing the following tasks:
- Restoring data-related objects (tables, schemas, and databases) that might have been accidentally or intentionally deleted. - Duplicating and backing up data from key points in the past.
- Analyzing data usage/manipulation over specified periods of time.
- By Default 1 days for timetravel allowed; for Enterprise or above Transient - 1 day and permanent 90 days. These can be modified as it consumes cost
- Users can use the DATA_RETENTION_TIME_IN_DAYS object parameter with the ACCOUNTADMIN role to set the default retention period for their account
- ACCOUNTADMIN role can set DATA_RETENTION_TIME_IN_DAYS to 0 at the account level
- SHOW TABLES HISTORY LIKE 'M%' IN <MYSCH> to see all the avaiable dropped tables

**Zero-copy**
- cloning allows us to make a snapshot
- A clone is writable and is independent of its source (i.e., changes made to the source or clone are not reflected in the other object). If we make any changes in the cloned table, then only its changed micro partitions are written to storage.
- A new clone of a table points to the original table's micro partitions, using no data storage
- External, Hybrid & Pipes are not cloned when cloning databases.   
- task and alert will be in suspended state, issue ALTER command to activate




**Time Travel :**    
    Using Time Travel, you can perform the following actions within a defined period:     
        - Query data in the past that has since been updated or deleted.     
        - Create clones of entire tables, schemas, and databases at or before specific points in the past.     
        - Restore tables, schemas, and databases that have been dropped.
    
SHOW Commands, MIN, MAX (integers and dates), and COUNT SQL queries take advantage of the Metadata cache 




 
File Access : 
    1. Presigned Url - expiry - Length of time specified in the expiration_time argument.No Snowflake access required
    2. Scoped url - expiry 24 hours
    3. File Url - complete path with db,schema only sufficient privileged user can access


SNOWFLAKE PARTNERS:   
- machine learning and AI : DataRobot 
- data transformation and modeling :  dbt
- business intelligence and visualization tool : Tableau
- Data Catolgue : Alation